A Yearning Plea to the Precious Guru
by Jamyang Khyentsé Chökyi Lodrö

emaho
Emaho: O wonder!
dü sum gyalwa kün ngö pemajung
All buddhas of past, present and future in person—Padmākara,
tsa sum rabjam tro dang duwé dak
Master from whom the infinite gurus, devas and ḍākinīs arise,
gangchen ten dang drowé kyab chikpu
Only refuge for the teachings and for beings in the land of snows,
orgyen rinpoche la solwa deb
To you, the Precious Guru of Orgyen, we pray!

barché kün sol samdön yishyin drub
Dispel all obstacles; fulfil our aspirations every one, just as we desire;
ku sung tuk kyi dorjé jin chen pob
Fill us with the inspiration and blessing of your vajra body, speech and mind;
nyamtok rigpé tsal chen kyepa dang
Make the great radiance of rigpa arise within us in experience and realization;
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsal du sol
Grant us the siddhis, ordinary and supreme!

tserab küntu tsokyé dorjé nyi
In all our lives, may you, ‘The Lake-born Vajra’,
rik kyi dakpor tob ching sung sang gi
Be the lord of our enlightened family, and,
dütsi nö né tuk kyi gongpa pö
Through receiving the nectar of your secret speech, let us be infused with the vision of your
wisdom mind
gurü ten la jawa jepar shok
So that we can serve and work for your teachings, O Guru!

lhamin lalö mün tsok ying su shyi
Pacify all the dark hordes of asuras and barbarians,
ten dang tendzin dar shying gyepa dang
Let the teaching and its holders increase and spread!
bö kham dekyi tashi jungwa dang
In the land of Tibet let bliss, happiness and auspiciousness arise,
rangshyen dön nyi drubpar jingyi lob
Inspire us with your blessing, to accomplish the well-being of ourselves and others!

It was on the 20th day of the third, 'black' month of the Fire Monkey year (1956), at Samyé,
while the tsok feast was being offered in front of the ‘Looks Like Me’ image of Guru Rinpoche,
that at the request of Pérab Tupten Shédrup Tendzin, attendant to the Sixth Dzogchen
Rinpoche, who is the crown jewel of an ocean of holders of the teachings of the Ancient Transmission,
Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö made this prayer. Siddhirastu! Maṅgalaṃ!

| Rigpa Translations, 2004

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols.
Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 62–63