Cloud Banks of Blessings
A Prayer to Orgyen Rinpoche
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

namo guru
Namo guru!
tsa sum gyatsö chizuk pema jung
Padmākara, universal manifestation of the oceanic Three Roots,
gyal dang dé sé tukkyé chikdü pa
Singular embodiment of the aspirations of the buddhas and their heirs,
drenpé dung sel tsokyé dorjé khyen
Lake-born Vajra, the mere thought of whom dispels distress, care for me!
bö bang kyobpé nyen chik guru jé
One and only guardian and friend to the Tibetan people, O precious Guru!

kyema kyi hü gyalsé tukjé chen
Kyema kyihüd! O compassionate heir to the victorious ones,
dak dra semchen lé kyi narwa la
When sentient beings like me are oppressed by past karma,
khyé kyi tukjé chak gi mi dzin na
Will you not lift us up with your hands of loving care?
dakchak yalwar dorwa ma lak sam
Surely you will not leave us here, forsaken and alone!

gönpo khyé la nyintsen dü druk tu
O protector, as I call out to you in tuneful, longing prayer
nyen gyur dungwé yang kyi soldeb na
Throughout the six times of the day and night,
pa yi bu la zik shik orgyen jé
Let the father watch over his children, precious Orgyen!
solwa nying né deb so jingyi lob
From the depths of my heart, I pray to you: inspire me with your blessings!

dak sok lé ngen dikdrib dakpa dang
Purify my own and others’ bad karma, misdeeds and obscurations,
damchö drubpé barché tamché sol
And dispel all obstacles to the accomplishment of sacred Dharma.
chö shyin sampé dön nam malüpa
Inspire me with your blessings, I pray, so that all aspirations
nyurdu gyurpar jingyi lab tu sol
Which accord with the Dharma may swiftly be fulfilled!

Thus, Chökyi Lodrö prayed single-pointedly. Siddhirastu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "o rgyan gsol 'debs byin rlabs sprin phung/" in ’Jam
dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986
Vol. 3: 53