The Fulfilment of Wishes and Aspirations
A Prayer to Ācārya Padmasambhava
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om ah hung bedza guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ

rangshyin chöku ösal long yang ché
Natural dharmakāya, the vast expanse of clear light,
magak lhündrub longchö dzokpé ku
Unceasing, spontaneously perfect saṃbhogakāya,
tukjé riktsal tulku pema jung
And nirmāṇakāya Padmākara, the expressive power of compassion—
tsokyé dorjé shyab la solwa deb
Lake-born Vajra, at your feet I pray!

tötreng rik nga tsen chok gya tsa sok
Tötreng (‘Skull Garland’) of the five families, the hundred supreme emanations and the rest—
gang dul shyi dang tro gar sam mikhyab
Your peaceful and wrathful guises that cater to beings’ needs defy the imagination
chok dü künkhyab guru dewa ché
And fill the whole of space and time, O Guru of Great Bliss,
tsa sum gyatsö chi pal solwa deb
Universal splendour of the oceanic three roots, to you I pray!

nyikdü marung damsi dulwé shé
Vanquisher of unruly damsi demons in this age of degeneration,
jikrung gar gü nyamden palchenpo
Terrifying and awesome, you possess the nine modes of expression,
pema drakpo mé yi trengwachen
O wrathful Padma with your garlands of flames,
drekpa dé gyé dul la solwa deb
Subduer of the eight classes of arrogant spirits, to you I pray!

ku ni deshek gyalwa gyatsö ku
In your enlightened form you embody an ocean of victorious sugatas,
sung gi tsang yang shyingkham gyatsor khyab
Your enlightened speech, with the voice of Brahma, pervades an ocean of realms,
tuk ni miyo kadak tingsal bub
And your enlightened mind is the immovable, primordially pure sphere, profound and clear—
ku sum kündü lamar solwa deb
Guru who embodies all three kāyas, to you I pray.

khandro yong kyi mingpo pawo ché
Great and valiant one, a brother to all ḍākinīs,
rangrig lama dorjé tötreng tsal
Vajra Tötreng Tsal, guru of my own awareness,
kyab kün düpé daknyi yong shepé
In the knowledge that you embody all sources of refuge,
nyintsen mepar dungwé soldeb na
I pray to you with fervent longing day and night,

gurü dorjé nyen gyi sen du sol
Listen to me as I do so, O guru, with your vajra-like hearing,
soldeb bu la khyentsé rab gong né
Consider, with your knowledge and love, this suppliant child,
dorjé sum gyi jin chen wabpa dang
Shower down your great blessings of vajra body, speech and mind,
dü dang dragek jungpö tsé dok sol
And dispel the threat of harm from demons, enemies, obstructing forces and elemental spirits!

barché kün shyi samdön yishyin drub
Pacify all obstacles, fulfil my every wish and aspiration,
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsal du sol
And bestow supreme and ordinary siddhis, I pray.
gyalten dargyé né muk tsön truk shyi
Let all be auspicious so that the teachings of the Victorious One flourish and spread,
jikten küntu gewé tashi shok
The turmoil of sickness, famine and warfare is pacified, and virtue fills the whole world.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. “slob dpon gsol 'debs bsam don re skong/" in ’Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol.
3: 76–78