The Supreme Bestowal of Twofold Attainment
A Prayer to Orgyen Rinpoche, Embodiment of All Sources of Refuge
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om ah hung benza guru pema siddhi hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
rangshyin kadak chöying podrang né
In the dharmadhātu palace of the primordially pure nature,
kyemé trödral chökü lama la
Is the dharmakāya guru, unborn and beyond conceptual elaboration—
riktong zungjuk ngang né solwa deb
To you I pray from the state of the union of awareness and emptiness:
shyönnu bumpa ku ru jingyi lob
Inspire me to realize the youthful vase body!

ngepa ngaden lhündrub podrang né
In the spontaneously perfect palace complete with the five certainties1
khajor dünden namnang longchö dzok
Is the Saṃbhogakāya Vairocana with the seven aspects of union—2
saltong zungjuk ngang né solwa deb
To you I pray from the state of the union of clarity and emptiness:
detong longchö dzok kur jingyi lob
Inspire me to realize the sambhogakāya of bliss-emptiness!

womin pema drawé shyalmé khang
In the immeasurable palace of the Lotus Net of Akaniṣṭha,
tukjé tulku pema jungné la
Is the compassionate nirmāṇakāya Padmasambhava—
nangtong zungjuk ngang né solwa deb
To you I pray from the state of the union of appearance and emptiness:
gang dul trulpé ku ru jingyi lob
Inspire me to realize the nirmāṇakāya that tames as needed!

yingrik yermé ösal tiklé long
In the expanse of luminous bindus wherein space and awareness are indivisible,
ku sum rik dü pema küntu chang
Is the embodiment of all the three-kāya families, Perpetual Bearer of the Lotus—
rangrig yermé ngang né solwa deb
To you I pray from the indivisible state of my own awareness,
ngowo nyi ku tokpar jingyi lob
Inspire me to realize the svabhāvikakāya!

ku dang shyingkham künkhyab podrang né
In the palace that extends throughout all kāyas and realms,
lama kunzang ö migyurwa la
Is the guru Samantabhadra of Unchanging Light—
rangnang sal shyak mepar solwa deb
To you I pray in the natural clarity beyond omission or addition—
ngönpar changchub ku ru jingyi lob
Inspire me to realize the abhisaṃbodhikāya!

ku ngé daknyi orgyen dorjé chang
Orgyen Dorje Chang, embodiment of these five kāyas,
tsen dang namtrul samyé jö lé dé
Your names and manifestations inconceivable and indescribable,
kyilkhor gyatsö tso chok pal chenpor
Great and glorious one, supreme sovereign of oceanic mandalas,
mögü dungshuk drakpö soldeb na
As I pray to you with fervent and intense devotion,
pa yi ying né zik shik möpé bur
Look down from your paternal space upon this devoted child:
tsewé gong né sang sum jinlab tsol
Consider me with love and confer the blessings of your three secrets.
chi nang sangwé barché chotrul dok
Avert the illusion of outer, inner and secret obstacles.
sampé dön kün lhün gyi drubpa dang
Cause all our wishes to be spontaneously fulfilled.
lé shyi trinlé gang tsam tarchin ching
Let any enlightened activities of the four kinds reach completion.
rangjung yeshe nangwa gong du pel
Let the visions of naturally arisen wisdom increase.
tsalung sem kyi düpa kün drol né
And with all knots in channels, winds and mind undone,
tarchin yeshe lamé sa nön té
Let us reach the ultimate level of Unsurpassable Wisdom,
pema benza tsal dang yermé shok
So that we may become inseparable from mighty Padmavajra!

Thus, Pema Yeshe Dorje made this prayer of whatever came to mind spontaneously and with unshakeable
faith. May it become a cause for the swift infusion of blessings. Sarva artha siddhirastu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "skyabs kun 'dus pa'i bdag nyid o rgyan rin po che la
gsol ba 'debs tshul/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse
Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 35–36
↑ Certainty of 1) teacher, 2) teaching, 3) place, 4) time and 5) retinue.↑ kha sbyor bdun. The
seven qualities of a sambhogakāya buddha are: 1) complete enjoyment, 2) union, 3) great
bliss, 4) absence of a self-nature, 5) presence of compassion, 6) being uninterrupted and
7) being unceasing.