The Swift Fulfilment of Aspirations
A Prayer to Glorious Orgyen, King of Dharma
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om ah hung benza guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ

chok dü tsa sum gyalwa gyatsö tsok
Precious One of Oḍḍiyāna, you who are the sole embodiment
malü chikdü orgyen rinpoche
Of all the infinite victorious ones and Three Root throughout space and time,
ngayab pema ö né tukjé zik
Look upon me with compassion from Lotus Light in Cāmara.
solwa nying né deb so jingyi lob
I pray to you from the depths of my heart: inspire me with your blessings!

kyen ngen changchub lam du gyurwa dang
Transform all negative circumstances into the path of awakening,
damchö drubpé barché kün shyi shying
Pacify all obstacles to the accomplishment of sacred Dharma,
tsé sö paljor lungtok yönten dang
Increase longevity, merit, resources, learning and realization,
yeshe rigpé tsal chen par du sol
And activate the great strength of awareness wisdom, I pray.

sherab zabmö gochen jepa dang
Cast open the great doors to ever deeper levels of insight,
pobpé terchen gyé la wangjor shying
Let us obtain the eight great treasures of courageous eloquence,1
rimé tö sam gompé petsal gyé
Expand the lotus garden of unbiased study, reflection and meditation,
zab dön drangtsi chü kyi chukpar shok
And make us rich with the honeyed nectar of profound meaning.

dorna dakshyen semchen tamché kyi
In short, let all my own and others’ aspirations and actions
chö tün samjor kechik tsam kyé kyang
That accord with the Dharma, even those that are but fleeting,
dé yi möla nyurdu drubpa dang
All be fulfilled immediately, in the very instant of their creation,
barché shyi shying dü lé gyal gyur chik
And pacify obstacles, so that we may gain victory over Mara!

Merely to refresh his own memory, Chökyi Lodrö offered this prayer with single-pointed devotion.
Siddhirastu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. “dpal o rgyan chos kyi rgyal po la gsol 'debs bsam don
myur ‘grub/“ in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang,
2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 53–54
↑ The eight treasures of courageous eloquence are: 1) treasure of recollection; 2) treasure
of intelligence; 3) treasure of realization; 4) treasure of retention (dhāraṇī); 5) treasure
of courageous eloquence; 6) treasure of Dharma; 7) treasure of bodhicitta; 8) treasure
of accomplishment.