The Falling Elixir of Blessing
A Prayer to the Great Guru and His Consorts
by Jamyang Khyentsé Chökyi Lodrö

namo guru pemakaraya
Namo Guru Padmākarāya!1
khyabdak palden dzokpé sangye ni
Perfectly enlightened buddha, in your splendour, lord of all,
pema lé trung pema gyalpo dang
Lotus-born, Padma Gyalpo,
mandarava yeshe tsogyal la
Mandāravā and Yeshé Tsogyal,
solwa nying né deb so jingyi lob
From our hearts we pray, inspire us with your blessing!

dü sum sangye kün gyi trulpa té
Emanation of all buddhas of all time,
khandro yong kyi mingpo pawo ché
Brother of all ḍākinīs, mighty warrior
dorjé tötreng tsal la solwa deb
Dorjé Tötreng Tsal, to you we pray:
jingyi lob shik orgyen rinpoche
Inspire us with your blessing, Orgyen Rinpoche!
ngödrub tsol chik yeshe daki khyen
Grant us siddhis, care for us, ḍākinīs of wisdom!

dzamling chi dang khyepar böyul gyi
In this whole world, and especially in Tibet,
kyabné chikchok kadrin khor tamé
You are our sole refuge, your kindness without end,
pemajungné shyab la solwa deb
Padmākara, at your feet we pray:
jingyi lob shik orgyen rinpoche
Inspire us with your blessing, Orgyen Rinpoche!
ngödrub tsol chik yeshe daki khyen
Grant us siddhis, care for us, ḍākinīs of wisdom!

nyikma nga dö dro la lhakpar tsé
Beings of this degenerate age are for you especially dear,
nang ré gong ré bö kyi dön la jön
In the morning and in the evening you come, for the sake of Tibet—
guru tukjé chen la solwa deb
Guru, so compassionate, to you we pray:
jingyi lob shik orgyen rinpoche
Inspire us with your blessing, Orgyen Rinpoche!
ngödrub tsol chik yeshe daki khyen
Grant us siddhis, care for us, ḍākinīs of wisdom!

nakchok dü dé truma ngompa na
When the armies of evil and negativity deploy their forces,
khyé kyi tukkyé lok tar rab nyur shying
Then think of us and strike as swift as lightning!
dorjé drakpo tsal la solwa deb
Dorjé Drakpo Tsal, to you we pray:
jingyi lob shik orgyen rinpoche
Inspire us with your blessing, Orgyen Rinpoche!
ngödrub tsol chik yeshe daki khyen
Grant us siddhis, care for us, ḍākinīs of wisdom!

yishyin nor tar gödö künjung shying
Like a wish-fulfilling jewel, you are the source of all our needs and wishes,
drenpa tsam gyi sishyi dungwa sel
Just to think of you dispels the misery of samsara and nirvana,
lama dewa chenpor solwa deb
Guru of Great Bliss, to you we pray:
jingyi lob shik orgyen rinpoche
Inspire us with your blessing, Orgyen Rinpoche!
ngödrub tsol chik yeshe daki khyen
Grant us siddhis, care for us, ḍākinīs of wisdom!

dak sok khyé kyi jejuk bu nam la
To your followers like us, your sons and daughters,
khyen tsé nüpé tsalshuk rab kyé dé
Direct all the power and force of your knowledge, love and strength!
jinlab wangchen danta nyi du kur
Instantly bestow on us the great empowerment of your blessing!
choktün ngödrub ten tok diru tsol
Here and now, grant us siddhis, ordinary and supreme!

tserab küntu pejung yabyum gyi
And then in all our lives to come, Padmākara, with your consorts,
tuk kyi sé su nyewar zung né kyang
Keep us close to your heart, the children of your wisdom mind,
sangwa gyatsö dzö la wanggyur shying
Empower us with the treasury of an ocean of secrets,
guru yabyum tukgong dzokpa yi
Let us master the splendour of the four enlightened activities
trinlé nam shyi pal la wangjor shok
And so fulfil your vision and your wishes, Guru yabyum!

detar soltab mönpa shyindu drub
With this our prayer, may all be fulfilled as we aspire:
gyalten dar shying jikten dé gé jor
May the teaching of Buddha flourish and this world be rich in peace and happiness,
ten la nö nam ring du tré jé té
With all those harmful to the teachings driven far away,
gendün dé pel tuktün trim tsang gi
Let everything be auspicious for the Saṅgha to increase in number, in harmony and with pure
discipline,
tubten chok chur gyepé tashi shok
And for the teaching of Buddha to spread in the ten directions!

When Sönam Gyaltsen of the Lakar family, great benefactors of the Buddhadharma, along with his
tutor Lama Gyurdrak, offered silver coins and a white scarf and requested this, Jamyang
Lodrö Gyatso wrote it at Drub Tso Pema Ling, on the twenty-first day of the monkey month
of the Monkey year (1956). May virtue abound!

| Rigpa Translations, 2004

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "ma hA gu ru yab yum gyi gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3:
41–43
↑ Homage to the master Padmākara!