Turning Back the Misfortunes of the Age of Degeneration
Prayers to the Precious Master of Orgyen
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

namo guru
Namo Guru!1
rabjam gyalwa yong kyi chizuk chok
Embodiment supreme, of all the infinite buddhas,
tsa sum rabjam gyatso tro shying du
Source of an infinite ocean of gurus, devas and ḍākinīs,
kyilkhor kün dak orgyen rinpoche
Lord of all mandalas, precious master of Orgyen,
nyikma nga dö dro la tukjé zik
Gaze on us with your compassion, now that the five degenerations reign!

khyö kyi ku yi namtrul sam mikhyab
The emanations of your wisdom body go beyond all imagining,
tötreng dé nga guru tsen gyé dang
The five tötrengs, the eight manifestations,
namtrul chunyi trul tsen shyibchu sok
The twelve emanations, and forty further emanations—
gang dul tsen dang trinlé tayé tön
Limitless are the forms and activities you display to tame beings.

khyepar nyikdü gyadré gongpo dang
Especially in this dark age, great destroyer who
damsi jungpo dulwé shé chenpo
Subjugates the gyadré, gongpo, damsi and jungpo,
cholwé trogyal dorjé drowolö
Dorje Drolö, crazy king of wrath:
guru dorjé drakpo tsal la dü
We pay homage to you, Guru Dorje Drakpo Tsal!

tutob dü té kalmé shyuk tar no
Your power as devastating as the inferno at the end of a kalpa,
ma rung lokdren dü dé lé gem shying
Annihilating  the  malevolent, violent demons who lead astray,
lhamin lalö pungtsok chemar tak
Smashing to dust armies of asuras and barbarians:
jom jé dorjé sinpor chaktsal tö
We offer praise and homage to you, victorious Dorje Sinpo!

detar tö ching solwa tabpé tü
Through the force of our praising and praying to you,
ngabgya tamar lhakpé ten dang dror
In this last of the periods of five hundred parts, let the unsurpassable teachings, and all
beings
gurü khyenpé chen gyi tsawa dang
Always be caressed by your eyes of wisdom, Guru,
jampé chak gi drangpar dzé du sol
Always be guided by your hands of love!
jiktenpa kün yangdak ta la né
Let this whole world of ours dwell in the authentic View,
dü kyi güpa nyewar shyiwa dang
Let the degenerations of our time be utterly dispelled,
dekyi dzokden pal la longchö ching
Let all possess complete happiness, and prosperity,
jampé sem dang denpar dzé du sol
And make our minds overflow with love!

gyalwé tenpa rinchen drönmé bar
Blaze on, light of Buddha’s priceless teaching:
tenpa dzin nam chimé langtso nyé
Let the holders of the teaching attain immortality,
gendün miché roltso tar gyé shing
Let the saṅgha increase, without divisions, like a vast ocean,
pang lok dzetrin gyepar dzé du sol
And make the enlightened activity of practice and study grow!

khyepar ten drö dekyi pemo la
Above all, grant us your blessing, and when the lotus-flower of the bliss and happiness of the
teachings and living beings
nöpé lhamin bamö tsok tadak
Is threatened by the frost of the forces of asuras,
khyö kyi tukjé tsazer rekpé mö
Strike it with the heat of the rays of your compassion,
nümé nyurdu shyiwar jingyi lob
So they are instantly pacified and rendered powerless!

dakchak gurü jesu jukpa nam
Precious Guru Rinpoche, all of us who follow you—
tserab küntu dralmé jedzin ching
Hold us fast to you, and stay with us, throughout all our lives,
shyab tek chukyé chiwor köpa dang
Set your lotus-feet on the crown of our heads, and
sang sum jinlab nying ü sim gyur chik
Let the blessing of your three secrets satisfy our hearts!

chi nang sangwé barché shyiwa dang
Pacify all obstacles, outer, inner and secret,
tsé sö paljor yeshe yönten pel
Let long life, merit, prosperity, wisdom and noble qualities increase,
chö shyin chöwé jawé dü da shying
Let time be spent in acting meaningfully, according to the Dharma,
shedrub trinlé pelwé tashi shok
Let all be auspicious for the enlightened activity of study and practice to spread!

In the ‘Powerful’ monkey year (1956), on the tenth day of the monkey month, when celebrating
the tenth day festival of the Lama Sangwa Düpa in the great assembly hall of Chakpurchen—‘the
one possessing the iron phurba’—at Lhodrak Kharchu, Pema Yeshe Dorje, or Chökyi Lodrö
made this prayer, and may all virtue and goodness abound!

| Rigpa Translations, 2004

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "o rgyan rin po che la gsol ba 'debs pa dus ngan snyigs
ma'i rkyen bzlog/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse
Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 38–40
↑ Homage to the Guru!